Sketch devp2p and gossip dependencies (#64)
vacp2p/rfc: waku.md

| **Mail Server** | A node responsible for archiving messages.       |
| **Mail Client** | A node that requests messages from mail servers. |

## Underlying Transports and Prerequisites

### Use of DevP2P

> For nodes to communicate, they MUST implement devp2p and run RLPx. Nodes discover is out of scope for this spec.

Author: The nodes discovery aspect seems like a mess right now and we need a lot more clarity there... I don't even know where to link to because there seems to be no documentation? Do we even have a namespace in Go that explains whatever we are doing with discoveryv5/rendezvous/staticnodes/etc?

How are things on the Nim side wrt Discovery v4/v5 etc @kdeme?

Reviewer: We currently only have discovery v4, so for whisper/waku it is default turned off, as it will have a difficult time finding the whisper nodes of the Status fleet.
Instead a direct connection is made to the fleet.

Discovery v5 is being worked on however.

> For nodes to communicate, they MUST implement devp2p and run RLPx. Nodes discover is out of scope for this spec.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For nodes to communicate, they MUST implement devp2p and run RLPx. Node discovery is out of scope for this spec.
```

### Gossip based routing

> In Whisper, messages are gossiped between peers. They float around the network until their TTL has expired. A node SHOULD relay messages to all connected nodes if an envelope matches its bloom filter or topic interest. A node MUST NOT sent expired envelopes, unless it is action as a mailserver.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Whisper, messages are gossiped between peers. They float around the network until their TTL has expired. A node SHOULD relay messages to all connected nodes if an envelope matches its bloom filter or topic interest. A node MUST NOT send expired envelopes, unless it is action as a mailserver.
```

> In Whisper, messages are gossiped between peers. They float around the network until their TTL has expired. A node SHOULD relay messages to all connected nodes if an envelope matches its bloom filter or topic interest. A node MUST NOT send expired envelopes, unless it is action as a mailserver.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In Whisper, messages are gossiped between peers. They float around the network until their TTL has expired. A node SHOULD relay messages to all connected nodes if an envelope matches their PoW and bloom filter settings. If a node works in light mode, it MAY choose not to forward envelopes. A node MUST NOT send expired envelopes, unless the envelopes are sent as a mailserver response.
```

| **Mail Server** | A node responsible for archiving messages.       |
| **Mail Client** | A node that requests messages from mail servers. |

## Underlying Transports and Prerequisites

### Use of DevP2P

For nodes to communicate, they MUST implement devp2p and run RLPx. They MUST have some way of connecting to other nodes. Node discovery is largely out of scope for this spec, but see the appendix for some suggestions on how to do this.

### Gossip based routing

> In Whisper, messages are gossiped between peers. They float around the network until their TTL has expired. A node SHOULD relay messages to all connected nodes if an envelope matches their PoW and bloom filter settings. If a node works in light mode, it MAY choose not to forward envelopes. A node MUST NOT send expired envelopes, unless the envelopes are sent as a mailserver response.

Reviewer 2: Maybe say they are retransmitted or something until ttl expired, float sounds weird

Author: Fixed

> In Whisper, messages are gossiped between peers. They float around the network until their TTL has expired. A node SHOULD relay messages to all connected nodes if an envelope matches their PoW and bloom filter settings. If a node works in light mode, it MAY choose not to forward envelopes. A node MUST NOT send expired envelopes, unless the envelopes are sent as a mailserver response.

Reviewer 2: if they should be relayed to all connected nodes then its not really gossiping is it?

Reviewer: Good point, rather flooding I guess.

Author: Flooding is also a form of gossiping, isn't it? It's also based on matching bloom filters. Added clarification here though re flooding and rumor mongering.

> In Whisper, messages are gossiped between peers. Whisper is a form of rumor-mongering protocol that works by flooding to its connected peers based on some factors. Messages are elgible for retransmission until their TTL expires. A node SHOULD relay messages to all connected nodes if an envelope matches their PoW and bloom filter settings. If a node works in light mode, it MAY choose not to forward envelopes. A node MUST NOT send expired envelopes, unless the envelopes are sent as a mailserver response. A node SHOULD NOT send a message to a peer that it has already sent before.

Reviewer 2: theres still a lot of mentions of gossip here?

Author: Because it is gossip?
